# Collaborative-aware Mixed Exercise Sampling 
## Abstract
Cognitive diagnosis is a crucial task in computer-aided edu- cation, aimed at evaluating students’ proficiency levels across various knowledge concepts through exercises. Current mod- els, however, primarily rely on students’ answered exercises, neglecting the complex and rich information contained in un- interacted exercises. While recent research has attempted to leverage the data within un-interacted exercises linked to in- teracted knowledge concepts, aiming to address the long-tail issue, these studies fail to fully explore the informative, un- interacted exercises related to broader knowledge concepts. This oversight results in diminished performance when these models are applied to comprehensive datasets. In response to this gap, we present the Collaborative-aware Mixed Exercise Sampling (CMES) framework, which can effectively exploit the information present in un-interacted exercises linked to un-interacted knowledge concepts. Specifically, we introduce a novel universal sampling module where the training sam- ples comprise not merely raw data slices, but enhanced sam- ples generated by combining weight-enhanced attention mix- ture techniques. Given the necessity of real response labels in cognitive diagnosis, we also propose a ranking-based pseudo feedback module to regulate students’ responses on gener- ated exercises. The versatility of the CMES framework bol- sters existing models and improves their adaptability. Fi- nally, we demonstrate the effectiveness and interpretability of our framework through comprehensive experiments on real- world datasets.

If the reader wants to know the details, please refer to the paper: *[Enhancing Cognitive Diagnosis Using Un-interacted Exercises: A Collaboration-Aware Mixed Sampling Approach](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28735/29417)*.
```bibtex
@inproceedings{ma2024enhancing,
  title={Enhancing cognitive diagnosis using un-interacted exercises: A collaboration-aware mixed sampling approach},
  author={Ma, Haiping and Wang, Changqian and Zhu, Hengshu and Yang, Shangshang and Zhang, Xiaoming and Zhang, Xingyi},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence},
  volume={38},
  number={8},
  pages={8877--8885},
  year={2024}
}
```